Subscriptions docs2 (#725)
aerogear/mobile-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/data-sync/server-realtime-updates-amq.adoc

> = Configuring AMQ Online for MQTT Messaging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Configuring AMQ Online for MQTT messaging
```

* http://mqtt.org/[MQTT] stands for MQ Telemetry Transport. It is a publish/subscribe, extremely simple and lightweight messaging protocol.

// tag::excludeDownstream[]
.Prerequisites

* OpenShift Cluster
* AMQ Online is installed in the OpenShift cluster
// end::excludeDownstream[]

AMQ Online includes many configuration options that could address the specific needs of your application. 

> The minimum configuration steps for using AMQ Online for MQTT messaging and enabling GraphQL subscriptions are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum configuration steps for using AMQ Online for MQTT messaging and enabling GraphQL subscriptions are:
```

> . Create an `AddressSpace`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create an `AddressSpace`.
```

> . Create an `Address`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create an `Address`.
```

> . Create a `MessagingUser`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a `MessagingUser`.
```

  plan: brokered-single-broker
----

. Create the `AddressSpace`.
+
----
oc create -f brokered-address-space.yaml
----

. Check the status of the address space:
+
----
oc get <`AddressSpace` name> -o yaml
----
+
The output displays information about the address space, including details required for connecting applications.

.Additional Information

> See https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_amq/7.3/html-single/using_amq_online_on_openshift_container_platform/index#create-address-space-cli-messaging[Creating address spaces using the command line] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_amq/7.3/html-single/using_amq_online_on_openshift_container_platform/index#create-address-space-cli-messaging[Creating address spaces using the command line] .
```

== Creating an Address

An adress is part of an `AddressSpace` and represents a destination for sending and receiving messages. 

> You use an `Address` to represent an MQTT topic. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use an `Address` to represent an MQTT topic. 
```

> For MQTT, you must use a `topic` adress type.

Reviewer 2: I think there is some redundancy in L72 and L73 and it might be a little confusing.

I think we could condense those down into one line like 
```
Use a `topic` type `Address` to represent an MQTT topic
```

Reviewer 2: alternatively 

```
Use an `Address` with type `topic` to represent an MQTT topic.
```

    plan: brokered-topic
----

. Create the address:
+
----
oc create -f topic-address.yaml
----

> NOTE: See the xref:#realtime-updates-{context}[Configuring your server for real-time updates] guide for more information about using `pubsub.asyncIterator()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: For more information about using `pubsub.asyncIterator()`, see xref:#realtime-updates-{context}[Configuring your server for real-time updates].
```

      operations: ["send", "recv"]
----

. Create the `MessagingUser`.
+
----
oc create -f my-messaging-user.yaml
----

An application can now connect to an AMQ Online address using this user's credentials. 

> For more information see the https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_amq/7.2/html-single/using_amq_online_on_openshift_container_platform/index#con-user-model-messaging[AMQ Online User Model].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_amq/7.2/html-single/using_amq_online_on_openshift_container_platform/index#con-user-model-messaging[AMQ Online User Model].
```

= Using GraphQL MQTT PubSub with AMQ Online

.Prerequisites

// tag::excludeDownstream[]
* OpenShift cluster
* AMQ Online is installed in the OpenShift cluster
// end::excludeDownstream[]

> The following AMQ Online resources are available for MQTT Applications 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following AMQ Online resources are available for MQTT Applications:
```

* AddressSpace
* Address 
* MessagingUser

This section describes how to use https://npm.im/@aerogear/graphql-mqtt-subscriptions[`@aerogear/graphql-mqtt-subscriptions`] to connect to an AMQ Online `Address`.

. Retrieve the connection details for the `AddressSpace` you want to use:
+
----
oc get addressspace <addressspace> -o yaml
----

> . Determine which method you want to use to connect to the address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Determine which method is best to connect to the address:
```

+

> * Using the service hostname - Allows clients to connect from within the OpenShift cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Using the service hostname - allows clients to connect from within the OpenShift cluster.
```

+
{org-name} recommends that applications running inside OpenShift connect using the service hostname. 
The service hostname is only accessible within the OpenShift cluster. This ensures messages routed between your application and AMQ Online stay within the OpenShift cluster and never go onto the public internet.
+
* Using the external hostname - Allows clients to connect from outside the OpenShift cluster.
+
The external hostname allows connections from outside the OpenShift cluster. This is useful for the following cases:
+
** Production applications running outside of OpenShift connecting and publishing messages.
** Quick Prototyping and local development. Create a non-production `AddressSpace`, allowing developers to connect applications from their local environments.

> . To connect to an AMQ Online `Address` using the service hostname

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To connect to an AMQ Online `Address` using the service hostname:
```

const pubsub = new MQTTPubSub({ client })
----

> .. To encrypt all messages between your application and the AMQ Online broker, use the TLS broker, for example:

Reviewer 2: `use the TLS broker` doesn't really make sense. make just `use TLS` or `enable TLS`

const pubsub = new MQTTPubSub({ client })
----
+
[NOTE]

> ====

Author: @darahayes  I think this applies to either method, so should prob move it to end of whole procedure?

Reviewer 2: @finp these are additional options only needed to enable TLS connections specifically when dealing with an AMQ broker in OpenShift. This is why I had that under its own heading originally. In my eyes, it has enough content and additional information the user needs to be aware of to warrant its own section.

Author: I've moved it to it's own step, ok?

> The options for `mqtt.connect` are:

Reviewer 2: The original text which said `There are some additional options passed into `mqtt.connect`` was in the context of enabling TLS for the specific use case of connecting to a broker in OpenShift, i.e. there are some additional options compared to the previous example where tls is not used.

The newer sentence `The options for mqtt.connect are:` is a bit inaccurate because there are a tonne of options for `mqtt.connect` documented here: https://www.npmjs.com/package/mqtt#mqttclientstreambuilder-options

Author: moved to it's own step and reworded

* `servername` - When connecting to a message broker in OpenShift using TLS, this property must be set otherwise the connection will fail. The reason for this is because the messages are being routed through a proxy resulting in the client being presented with multiple certificates. By setting the `servername`, the client will use https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Name_Indication[Server Name Indication (SNI)] to request the correct certificate as part of the TLS connection setup.
* `protocol` - Must be set to `'tls'`
* `rejectUnauthorizated` - Must be set to false, otherwise the connection will fail. This tells the client to ignore certificate errors. Again, this is needed because the client is presented with multiple certificates and one of the certificates is for a different hostname than the one being requested, which normally results in an error.
* `port` - must be set to 5761 for tls connections to the service hostname.
====

. To connect to an AMQ Online `Address` using the external hostname:
+

> NOTE: The external hostname typically accept only accept TLS connections.

Reviewer: This sentence requires attention.
